it's pretty rare that a movie or game or
any media will come out and essentially
define its own genre or event kind of
like how in Jaws and Star Wars initially
came out in the 70s they were labeled as
blockbusters because people would be
forced to line up around the block to
see him now it's kind of just tacked on
to every movie that comes out
ain't nobody blind enough for
Blockbuster Video these days it's just
become kind of a buzzword that you throw
on to attempt to classify something
kinda like Dark Souls crash bandicoot's
the Dark Souls the 3d platforming hub
heads the dark souls of 2d platforming
let it die the goofy Dark Souls hello hi
yes it's me Austin and today we're gonna
be talking about some Dark Souls clones
of which there's a lot of them but first
I want to talk to you guys about today's
sponsor raid shadow legends if you're
into mobile games at all this is
definitely one you're gonna want to
check out raids a free game that hit the
scene three months ago and already has
nearly 10 million players worldwide why
well because it's actually pretty solid
I love playing RPGs on the go and if
you're a fan of traditional strategic
turn-based gameplay and big story piece
boss fights this one's got a lot to
offer I'm not used to my mobile games
having like quality 3d graphics I mean
look at these champions the heck there's
a plethora of Heroes to grab fuse and
make all big strong the highly
anticipated update just went live so
there's a ton of new stuff for everyone
to experience in fact there's a lot of
content for everyone that's gonna keep
you busy so if you want to hop in on
this use my special link in the
description to get a head start a fifty
thousand silver and a free epic champion
that'll pop after seven days so go check
it out and a big THANK YOU to Rage
shadow legends for sponsoring this video
know on with the show for those
unfamiliar with Dark Souls watching this
say like my parents let's run it down
real quick demon souls was a weird as
hell 3d action game that released on the
PlayStation 3 back in 2009 by from
software those dudes were at the time
most notorious for the armored Corps
franchise which by the way I'm still
waiting for a new one demons got a lot
of notoriety for having an ounce of
difficulty back in a time where
games were considerably easier than they
are now I think we can blame halo for
the whole regenerating health thing
Demon Souls would be like a what's up
your [ __ ] dirt then people loved that
[ __ ] I love that [ __ ] but more
importantly demons and the spiritual
successors in Dark Souls blood-borne and
say Kiro presented the player with so
much more than angry gamer moments on
YouTube and griefing videos although
those grieving videos are pretty great
you had an impressive amount of
world-building only discoverable through
the players efforts a minimal amount of
central narrative dark fantasy world or
even sometimes some horrifying Lovecraft
II and stuff he had bosses that you
trial-and-error it against for hours in
an attempt to conquer it's all fair and
as long as you're on your toes you can
do it hell I did it I beats a hero it's
not that hard just just block
so instead of throwing around words like
souls like souls born or I don't know
soul Kiro born let's take a second to
talk about some actual Dark Souls clones
no more of this frickin fortune Street
is the psyche row of Mario Party of
blood-borne nonsense I'm talking about
games that were like hmm let's try the
thing what is the thing it's obvious
just watch the video you understand so
I'm back from the shame attic to
announce that yes this is indeed not
clickbait we about to talk about some
Dark Souls clones and to get started
let's talk about the most obvious one
that I can think of nowadays there's a
lot of souls likes but once upon a time
if you wanted to try something really
similar to Dark Souls you had nothing
for like a really long time
then Lords of the Fallen was like a
wassup baby
[Applause]
German developer Dec 13 wasn't really
known for too much at the time but I
remember early previews of this game
looking pretty slick especially in the
visual Department which was never from
sauce
strongest suit Lorde's is like fine and
I always felt like it played OK and had
some decent moments but it tried too
hard to do the souls thing but with like
15% more jank I did really like the
experience point multiplier system and
playing as an actual character but
that's it Lords of the Fallen is kind of
uninteresting to talk about but I do
think that deck 13 surge is pretty cool
when it's not off making nibbly bits
allegedly shrink the surge is this
futuristic Souls like that popped out of
nowhere in 2017
I picked this thing up on a whim and
it's not bad do you like terminator are
you afraid of the robots have you ever
wanted to play a game where you are
basically the mech crab soup from aliens
well then the surge might be for you you
play as Warren on his first day of work
at a business called creo totally not
evil Google who want to read green the
earth in this era of pollution by
shooting missiles at it granted they're
like healing Rockets but still Warren
shows up with a dramatic wheelchair
reveal hoping to get a robotic
exoskeleton you actually pick your
starting class by wheeling around from
room to room hearing explanations of the
types of suits you can pick it's neat
then the robots are like administer the
sedative but they totally did not
administer the sedative and then you're
like
then you wake up and everything's all
post-apocalyptic like how how fast was
that oh well time to kill some robots
oh yeah Dark Souls colognes the surge is
a vast improvement over Dec their team's
last effort and it has a handful of
really neat mechanics you like do the
Dark Souls lock-on on two dudes except
you actually target individual body
parts if you want to go for the quick
kill you'll lock on to an unarmored part
but your main method of acquiring
crafting materials and new weapons is by
attacking armored parts you'll run into
a random dude that has a big scary
looking weapon and you'll be like I want
it so you break it off is mine now it's
like Gundam breaker except with
scary-looking Skynet robots who are like
corpses instead of souls or blood as a
currency you have Tech's crap you'll use
these at med Bay's to increase your core
power which allows you to slot better
gear and implants to get big strong but
maybe not bravery the heck is this it
wouldn't be a souls clone without bosses
I hope you like even bigger robots the
search will have you dying a ton so it's
definitely more forgiving than the
series it pulls from although having a
time limit to recover your dead body in
order to keep the scraps you've gotten
what's an exciting and difficult feature
not only do you have to get back to
where you were but you only got like
five minutes so good luck over all the
surges are pretty decent souls like and
one that I've had a lot of fun with it's
biggest flaw is honestly a lack of
personality from playing it to straight
that and combat can be a bit finicky
control inputs are super sensitive so
you'll accidentally press the button
twice but then you're locked in for two
full hits and you've got you gotta be
real gentle I was really happy to see
this urge to be a thing when it was
announced so here's the hoping they make
it even better
I know it's popular to put them in games
these days but hopefully they don't have
the Terminator crossover stay away
there's not too much to offer on the
triple-a front when it comes to Dark
Souls clones besides like the incredibly
obvious ones like neo and Serge I think
a lot of the more interesting stuff
comes out of the indie corner so let's
uh let's do that do you like Dark Souls
I'm gonna assume probably well how about
the rogue light or a roguelike whatever
what about the souls like roguelike not
enough for ya okay how about the four
player co-op low
souls like roguelike yeah buzzwords the
crop allison concept is pretty sick the
developer Harebrained Schemes was at the
time known for the Shadowrun Returns
reboot which was really solid and
relatively popular with PC gamers when
it released so when I came across the
necropolis booth at PAX Prime and saw
like three people playing a game that
looked like Dark Souls together I was
like oh hi hello yes where do i money so
when it finally released in July of 2016
it was not well-received at all it
turned me off from purchasing it at the
time but there were a ton of complaints
hairbrained themselves acknowledged
review bombs so barely three months
later hair brained released the brutal
edition update which added a decent
amount of content like new enemies new
environments and even a new playable
character
the devs released this as part of a road
map they posted on the steam forums of
many hotfix and then promptly they sleep
battle tech time so we're gonna talk a
little bit about the brutal edition of
necropolis whatever version I played
like a week ago
okay that's good yeah turns out video
games are fun with friends in every
situation single-player for this one a
little less so but that's okay let's
talk about it so in necropolis you
basically just attempt to escape from
the dungeon overseen by an Archmage
called Abraxas I I think the plots very
vague just like everything else when you
create a character you pick one of two
characters types and gender but there's
no telling what makes them different
unless you get a second to play as them
that's fine but this kind of thing is
basically a motif for the entirety of
necropolis wanna make a potion sure what
does it do figure it out [ __ ] time
to equip a skill like you try to stomach
bad food okay just like Final Fantasy 11
necropolis is one of those games you
want to play with a second monitor
displaying the Wikipedia like the entire
time it's hard to even tell what things
are this little book stand here that's
how you get traits you would never know
but beyond that this game feels real
good to play once you figure out some of
the base stuff with the controls and you
have a little party of friends getting
into it you're gonna have a good time
considering this is a roguelike if you
die you'll lose all of your progress and
restart
well besides these little progress gems
here however in co-op you get to
resurrect eachother mid run
you'll need it too since Necropolis
decided to keep friendly fire on can I
just think about that oh my god sorry
roguelike Dark Souls tight corridors
friendly fire shenanigans but you end up
trying to like communicate with each
other to be like alright I don't have
much stamina you go in and I'll stay
back it's pretty cool
however Necker does suffer from the same
thing I mentioned with the surge earlier
where your actions will cue leading to
moments where you do long ass animations
like this twice it's just unfortunate
that the content here is really
bare-bones
now I know the developers updated it but
considering it's been three years since
the last update with no word necropolis
remains that little game that could have
been unless you and a few friends pick
it up on sale for like five dollars but
at the normal price of $30 that's a
little steep maybe one day someone will
make the definitive four player co-op
souls like roguelike but for now this
will have to do okay I think it's about
time we move away from the finished
product and move on to the bottomless
pit known as early access after all why
pay full price for something when you
can like boot up steam navigate the
hundreds of hentai games and pay for
something that's totally not finished
like like this now that all it takes is
a handshake a hundred bucks and an exe
to get a video game on to steam the
platform's turned into this extremely
difficult to navigate almost unusable
search engine filled with literal trash
and I love it now most people out there
who played normal video games are like
oh how do I even find good video games
anymore but maybe the epic game store
has them but the epic game store doesn't
have gems like weed
I guess people figured out how to throw
Dark Souls into unity now so let's talk
about a few early access clones only two
specific ones though cuz there's a lot
we got to deke loans 3d clones virtual
reality clones probably normally I
wouldn't pick on this type of thing but
screw it
this here is never end picked it cuz
there's an anime girl I only listen to
my dad and my dad loves anime girls I
launched this thing and thought it
crashed right away but no it just
freezes when you open it for like 10
seconds sick never rinth is another one
of those Souls like roguelikes turns out
that's all the rage these days Dark
Souls linear level progression upgrades
on death anime pops BAM very positive
we've talked about all kinds of clones
at this point some of them are like
games that are heavily inspired by
something other clones are straight up
in the same engine and feel identical to
play looking at every doom clone out
there then you have something like never
in know this isn't just a modded Dark
Souls although this is this a recolor
maybe not but basically never in this'
like rey Ayanami and the girl from
heavenly sword got stuck in the lobby
from demon souls and also tetris is here
it's not often you get to play something
so blatant but at the same time never
n't it's just clearly early access on an
indie budget at the moment there is
hardly any variety in the enemies from
floor to floor combat feels a little
unbalanced any couple items are hard to
make sense of their are boss fights
they're pretty one notes the mechanics
aren't that challenging but they have
like a million health it's a big sponge
you get a currency called crystal energy
as you go through the nephron this is
used for temporary upgrades for agility
strength defense and luck temporary
because the numbers and stat boosting
all disappear I'm dead your main method
of progression is by unlocking
achievements like kill ten of this thing
which is not gonna make you stronger so
much as give you access to more tools
it's kind of like dead cells there's
also a crystal board Tetris thing that
lets just slot runes you find while
dungeon aim for a few passives and a
totem that'll increase your base stats
but that's about it
damn costumes gotta love costumes for an
early access game never rent is it bad
although maybe the very
this is a bit much considering the
combat and UI needs a bit of work also
I'm like pretty sure that the menu sound
effect is straight up from Grandia - yo
Grandia - still real good
hey anime in the video J sticking with
early access we're gonna be moving on to
something that hit the stores back in
January
bloody spell the early access Dark Souls
clone with purchasable downloadable
content of sexy animal outfits of course
if you're a player who pursues blood and
is brave enough to challenge the limits
it will def inspire your adrenaline a
spell wants to be a tough-as-nails Souls
like action game and it lets you know in
the difficulty selection ez is
recommended for players who have not
touched the action game normals for
players who have been exposed to action
games and souls games Souls games hard'
is for those who have been exposed to
ninja gaiden and Yakuza I didn't know
you could just name drop I feel like
there's a pretty big gap between ninja
gaiden and Yakuza maybe there's another
game that should have had their name
written here I don't know I'm not gonna
say it you gotta love this basic font
and early access y'all the game though
it's uh there's something neat going on
here
you just gotta brush off a little layer
of jank 3d platforming with Souls II
physics sure being able to take damage
while locked in texts with NPCs yep you
wanna [ __ ] see anything no sir unlike
never rent there's a ton of cool-looking
gear you can find lying around or stuff
you can spend your currency on which is
just straight-up called blood by the way
yes sir that will be 2,000 blood what
there's several types of armor and
weapon sets you can find lying around
though it did take a while to find
something to cover my nasty feet I was
wearing like capri bloomers for the
longest time but at least I was lucky
enough to find a huge blunt the game's a
pretty fun time though combat feels
pretty fluid no matter which weapon
you're using it crosses a lot of the
Devil May Cry territory in terms of
speed which I guess makes sense
considering they ripped off the bloody
palace mode on the menu yep that is just
straight up bloody Palace when you slide
in the boss fights battles are suddenly
exhilarating you have a teleport
mechanic you used to approach enemies
quickly even if you end up doing it at
the wrong time you're uh you're gonna
die normal enemies are just like zombies
though there's not much variety at the
moment but the road map plans to add a
lot of areas the beginning dungeon has
multiple routes and it seems like it's
randomly generated but everything else
follows the souls like formula you hold
on to any abilities you unlocked and any
items you have equipped you can also
unlock specific items by doing hidden
mini-games
like this one where you just throw a
spear at a rat to unlock this what's
what's the DLC then why is the woman on
the front page and main menu of this
game the one being used for all of the
promotion not the main character you
play as this guy but you can just equip
this wig and oh oh it's what you guys
have been using the budget for seriously
keep up the good work
bloody smells pretty cool even if it
goes a little onii-chan bar at times I
think they got a long way to go and a
lot of jank in Times New Roman font to
fix but it's on the right path though it
did come out before say Kuro and now
that path is even longer or maybe this
is better I don't know so everything
we've talked about in the video so far
has been good or fine you know I think
that's a testament to how good of a
concept Dark Souls really is but I want
to change that for our last game today
let's talk about a little digital title
called inferno climber reborn
I bet you didn't know that Arc System
Works made a Dark Souls clone you can
tell without this on the bottom to just
look at the logos Marxist logos always
have this extremely over designed
ridiculous look to it this one kind of
looks similar to the under knight in
birth logo actually I think this is a
remake but Inferno climber reborn here
gives us not one but two logos in the
same main menu I'm stalling though cuz
oh boy you begin with your standard
character creation and what is that this
is what I imagined sir Daniel from
medieval would look like if he was alive
you make your dude and slowly walk past
a bunch of dead bodies toward what looks
like a final boss arena and sure enough
you did then death asks if you want to
wake up in heaven or hell and it doesn't
really make any sense but apparently
heaven is just dying to this giant
dragon thing over and over so let's go
with hell that's right Inferno climber
insinuates right off the bat that the
act of normally playing the game is in
heaven but he'll although the launch
icon might have been enough to tell you
that Inferno climber pulls a lot from
Dark Souls but controls like absolute
[ __ ] by comparison in every game I've
spoken about in this episode the
character you control has momentum to
their movement there's a startup
animation with weight to any slight
jostling you might do you have different
walk speeds looking at inferno for even
two seconds is enough to see that this
thing you just depress but but what if
you take the mechanics and difficulty of
Dark Souls and add in the durability
system from breadth of the wild that
kind of sucks but what if you add that
durability system to all of the food you
have to eat you need to fill up that
tummy so you don't suddenly die but the
food you find can also die and really
fast too why does this literal walking
corpse need to be fed you're a zombie
when you die which by the way you will
you then briefly control death and have
to pick a new character if anyone out
there is played let it die there is a
system where your playable characters
will get kidnapped by other players an
inferno climber if you die your corpse
run is
by another character entirely so if your
best dude dies in a high-level area and
you've not like worked on anybody else
you have to basically sacrifice someone
else to grab them if everyone dies you
have to permanently erase a character in
order to get them a fresh start to try
to get all the other characters again so
so don't do that
granted anytime you level up your XP
goes to all of your body's characters Oh
check this out look at this PS PS menu
system my my eyes immediately glazed
over this will be fine in like an MMO or
a game from 20 years ago
what is variants percentage what does
this mean is it the percentage chance
that shield Naruto run is it your
enemy's chance to Naruto run infernal
climber is not only infuriating in
concept but has close to no conveyance
of what you're supposed to do I get that
like Dark Souls is like hey figure it
out but Inferno climbers like figure out
the one and only specific thing you have
to do and we're not gonna tell you a
[ __ ] I spent so much time trying to
understand the significance of these
trials you do from the note that I got
in the jungle that just said I learned
how to use this bow and arrow and a
basement somewhere and then I couldn't
for the life of me figure out where to
go but once I did let me show you did
you see it
see that tiny little switch blurred out
in the distance stuck here for like an
hour most embarrassed I've ever been I
kept going for a little bit for
ragequitting while corpse running over
and over in any other souls like you
feel like you can slowly push your way
through the combat as you learn more and
more but an inferno climber you get
jostling around like a rag doll and
swarmed and just put into the ground
like a sick this game doesn't feel real
to me your food rots too fast your
weapons break too fast and also
everything's just this nasty brown and
somehow Arc System Works made this
though the guys known for maximum style
and color yet somehow half of this game
looks like a grim dark version of Chaco
mountain from Mario Kart 64 steer clear
of this one if you can don't be like me
swear to me it's a bad game
well that's it for today people have
been making a meme out of the fact that
I always promise a new video as a sequel
to whatever one I'm working on so I'm
not going to do that today very
sensitive guys I had to had to move into
the Attic the gamers are coming I tried
to get into area 51 and all that was
there was a bunch of angry Dark Souls
fans unfortunately so this is where I
live now I'm a barricaded up I hope
everything is gonna be okay I think I'm
gonna be safe but you know we'll see I I
guess while I'm here we should think a
couple of people I don't know if I'm
gonna make it out but a special patreon
shout-out to Alfredo Adriano Christopher
Olivia Chris Shelton Donald Doughty
David Molnar Eli Shane Stefanik or
flaming fighter I rational Jay Bruce
James Rory Jacobi Fitzpatrick Josh
garbage Lord legend Gary night Ron Sun
night Ron is it plasma Fenix Ronnie vial
shintaro Superfly 1787 and Vlad lust I
think we're gonna be okay the Dark Souls
fans are very upset subscribe [ __ ]